docs: Add guide for using skills in AgentSkills/Claude format (#238)
All-Hands-AI/docs: sdk/guides/skill.mdx

skills = load_project_skills(workspace_dir="/path/to/repo")
agent_context = AgentContext(skills=skills)
```

### Option 2: Inline Skill (Code-defined)

```python
from openhands.sdk import AgentContext
from openhands.sdk.context import Skill

agent_context = AgentContext(
    skills=[
        Skill(
            name="code-style",
            content="Always use type hints in Python.",
            trigger=None,  # No trigger = always loaded
        ),
    ]
)
```

## Trigger-Loaded Context

Content injected when keywords appear in user messages. See [Keyword-Triggered Skills](/overview/skills/keyword).

```python
from openhands.sdk.context import Skill, KeywordTrigger

Skill(
    name="encryption-helper",
    content="Use the encrypt.sh script to encrypt messages.",
    trigger=KeywordTrigger(keywords=["encrypt", "decrypt"]),
)
```

When user says "encrypt this", the content is injected into the message:

```xml
<EXTRA_INFO>
The following information has been included based on a keyword match for "encrypt".
Skill location: /path/to/encryption-helper

Use the encrypt.sh script to encrypt messages.
</EXTRA_INFO>
```

## Progressive Disclosure (AgentSkills Standard)

> For large skills, use the [AgentSkills standard](https://agentskills.io/specification) `SKILL.md` format. The agent sees a summary and reads full content on demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the agent to trigger skills, use the [AgentSkills standard](https://agentskills.io/specification) `SKILL.md` format. The agent sees a summary and reads full content on demand.
```

Not really a suggestion, I find this interesting: I feel what Agentskills progressive disclosure does, extended by OH triggers, is to allow us to say "skills loaded on-demand: they can be triggered by the user by using keywords, or by the agent when the LLM decides that the skill description matches its task"

But maybe that's for another time!

Reviewer 2: Yep - basically we have two system:

- Always ON: AGENTS.md
- On-demand: AgentSkills + Trigger

Let's leave it to a separate PR to update the overview skills docs

Reviewer: @openhands Look at this PR and understand these comments. Clone yourself agent-sdk from the same org to look up the real implementation, too, and investigate.

The most important part is this comment though.

Find and update the other skills doc mdx, the overview skills docs.

  author: your-name
  version: "1.0"
triggers:                         # Optional (OpenHands extension)
  - keyword1
  - keyword2
---

# Skill Content

Instructions and documentation for the agent...
```

#### Standard vs Extension Fields

| Field | Source | Description |
|-------|--------|-------------|
| `name` | Standard | Skill identifier (max 64 chars, lowercase + hyphens) |
| `description` | Standard | What the skill does and when to use it (max 1024 chars) |
| `license` | Standard | License name or reference |
| `compatibility` | Standard | Environment requirements |
| `metadata` | Standard | Arbitrary key-value pairs |
| `triggers` | **OpenHands** | Keywords that auto-activate this skill |

<Warning>
The `triggers` field is an OpenHands extension not part of the official AgentSkills standard. Skills using this field may not be portable to other AgentSkills-compatible tools.
</Warning>

#### Trigger Behavior

| Has `triggers`? | System Prompt | Content Loading |
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|
| Yes | Listed in `<SKILLS>` | Injected when keyword detected |
| No | Full content in `<REPO_CONTEXT>` | Always loaded at startup |

<Note>

> **Known limitation**: The official AgentSkills standard recommends progressive disclosure where ALL skills are listed with just name/description/location, and the agent decides when to read full content. Currently, OpenHands loads full content for skills without triggers. See [issue #1646](https://github.com/OpenHands/software-agent-sdk/issues/1646) for discussion.

Reviewer 2: Should be fixed now

│   └── examples.md
└── assets/           # Optional: Static assets
    └── config.json
```

### SKILL.md Format

The `SKILL.md` file defines the skill with YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
name: my-skill                    # Required (standard)
description: >                    # Required (standard)
  A brief description of what this skill does and when to use it.
license: MIT                      # Optional (standard)
compatibility: Requires bash      # Optional (standard)
metadata:                         # Optional (standard)
  author: your-name
  version: "1.0"
triggers:                         # Optional (OpenHands extension)
  - keyword1
  - keyword2
---

# Skill Content

Instructions and documentation for the agent...
```

#### Frontmatter Fields

| Field | Required | Description |
|-------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | Yes | Skill identifier (lowercase + hyphens) |
| `description` | Yes | What the skill does (shown to agent) |
| `triggers` | No | Keywords that auto-activate this skill (**OpenHands extension**) |
| `license` | No | License name |
| `compatibility` | No | Environment requirements |
| `metadata` | No | Custom key-value pairs |

<Tip>

> Add `triggers` to make your SKILL.md keyword-activated. Without triggers, the skill is listed but the agent must read the file to see its content.

Reviewer 2: > Without triggers, the skill is listed but the agent must read the file to see its content.

This is technically correct though - agent can see it in system prompt, but doesn't see the content unless it opens up that file
